# Data migration

* As a user I want to be able to migrate data from 6.15 to 7.0 (w/ system dumps)
* As a user I want to have my existing data upgraded automaticaly, if possible, between versions (w/o system dumps)
* As a user I want to be able to know what is the version of a system dump (and not the XP version it was generated by)
* As a user I want my dumps to be automatically upgraded if necessary

## Requirements

* A data model version (integer) must be stored in the data (repository system-repo).
* A mechanism similar to initialization should check the data model version
  * Upgrade the data if possible
  * Block the startup of the platform until it is finished
  * Stop the startup if the existing version is subsequent to the expected version (no rollback)
* A dump model version property must be included in the dump.json
* The dump upgrade must be done server side
* If the version to be loaded is incompatible, the dump load should update the dump first.

## Dependencies

None

## To be discussed

* Where to store the data model version?
  * Proposition: In a new node at the root of system-repo

## Details

### Versioning

Supposition: We use a pattern X.Y for the versioning of data and dumps.
* X is incremented on breaking changes.
* Y is incremented on breaking changes (extension of the schema).
* The specifications of the data/dumps would be defined by this X.Y version.
* To be able to upgrade the data/dump on demand, we need to store this information.
Only the major version is necessary for the upgrade since a data/dump X1 is supposed to be compatible with all the subsequent X1.* versions.
But minor version would be helpful to check that you are not trying to load a subsequent version of data that is not handled by the current version.

  
